Adding private apk repo doc (#2084)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-images/features/private-apk-repos/index.md

> **NOTE**: Chainguard's private APK repositories feature is currently in the beta phase and it will likely go through changes before becoming generally available.

## About Private APK Repositories

Chainguard's private APK repos allow customers to pull secure apk packages from Chainguard. The list of packages available in an organization's private repository is based on the apk repositories that the organization already has access to.

For example, say your organization has access to the [Chainguard MySQL container image](https://images.chainguard.dev/directory/image/mysql/versions). Along with `mysql`, this image comes with other apk packages, including `bash`, `openssl`, and `pwgen`. This means that you'll have access to these apk packages through your organization's private APK repository, along with any others that appear in Chainguard container images that your organization has access to. 

As of this writing, private APK repositories are an opt-in feature. [Contact us](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact?utm=docs) to get started.

## Your Repository Address

Your private APK repository will be available at a URL like the following:

> `https://apk.cgr.dev/$ORGANIZATION`

Reviewer: Can we initialize the variables here, with an example:

```
ORGANIZATION="chainguard.edu"
IMAGE="chainguard-base"
```

That way people can copy / paste throughout?

## Using Private APK Repositories with Dockerfiles

So far, this guide has outlined how to manually fetch apk packages from a private repository. We'll now go over how to use a private APK repo within a Dockerfile workflow. We'll be using the same organization, image, and private package used in the previous examples.

If you haven't already done so, close the container you were running in the previous section. Then run the following command to create a Dockerfile. This Dockerfile uses [Docker Build Secrets](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/secrets/#using-build-secrets) to inject the credentials into a `RUN` command that will update the apk cache and another that will install the `wget` apk package:

```shell
cat > Dockerfile <<EOF
FROM cgr.dev/$ORGANIZATION/$IMAGE

RUN apk add apko && apko install-keys
RUN echo https://apk.cgr.dev/$ORGANIZATION >> /etc/apk/repositories
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=cgr-token HTTP_AUTH="basic:apk.cgr.dev:user:\$(cat /run/secrets/cgr-token)" apk update
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=cgr-token HTTP_AUTH="basic:apk.cgr.dev:user:\$(cat /run/secrets/cgr-token)" apk add wget -X https://apk.cgr.dev/$ORGANIZATION

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EOF
```
```

Reviewer: Then add the ``` in the next line

## Using Private APK Repositories with Apko Builds

You can also use your private APK repository with [apko](/open-source/build-tools/apko/overview/) builds. One of the advantages of this method is that you can build distroless images that include only the apk packages you need in the final image. 

As with the previous examples, you'll need to provide the `HTTP_AUTH` environment variable containing your Chainguard token to the apko runtime building the image. 

The following Dockerfile includes the private APK repository used in previous examples and installs a single package (`wget`) in the image:

```shell
cat > apko.yaml <<EOF
contents:
  repositories:
  - https://apk.cgr.dev/$ORGANIZATION
  keyring:
  - https://packages.wolfi.dev/os/wolfi-signing.rsa.pub
  packages:
  - wget

archs:
- x86_64
- aarch64
EOF
```

The following `docker run` command will inject the `HTTP_AUTH` environment variable within an `apko` runtime and build the image:

```shell
docker run --rm \
  -e "HTTP_AUTH=basic:apk.cgr.dev:user:$(chainctl auth token --audience apk.cgr.dev)" \
  --workdir /work -v ${PWD}:/work \
  cgr.dev/chainguard/apko build apko.yaml test-apk test-apk.tar \

>   --arch host

Reviewer: Not sure why, but I'm getting this error

```
Error: unknown flag: --arch
```

Author: it works for me, but it also works without it. I'll just remove it.

2025/02/20 21:23:50 INFO built image layer tarball as /tmp/apko-temp-2854430999/apko-x86_64.tar.gz

. . .
```

## Troubleshooting

You may receive a 403 error when pulling down a package:

`403 FORBIDDEN caller does not have the required capabilities`

This error may mean that your Chainguard identity doesn't have the proper capabilities to download the image. To pull an image, the identity will need a role with the `apk (list)` capability. The least privileged role with this capability is `apk.role`, though more privileged roles like `owner`, `editor`, and `viewer` also have this capability. 

You can check this and fix it by following these steps:

1. Run `chainctl auth status` and check the `Capabilities` field in the output. If you don't find the `apk.pull` role (or a more privileged role) for the organization you're trying to pull from, you will need to add the role.
2. Create the `apk.pull` role using the steps outlined in our [Overview of Roles and Role-bindings](/chainguard/administration/iam-organizations/roles-role-bindings/roles-role-bindings/) resource.
3. Try pulling the package again.

> As this feature is still in its beta phase, we anticipate that users may encounter further issues as they practice with it. If you need further assistance troubleshooting, please [reach out to our Customer Support team](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact?utm=docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this feature is still in its beta phase, we invite feedback. If you would like to provide feedback or need further assistance troubleshooting, please [reach out to our Customer Support team](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact?utm=docs).
```
